# 央视《美丽中国》英文文稿集合 

## EP1-12

### 《Amazing China EP1: Perpetually White Mountains》


Located in the northeast of China, the Changbai Mountains is named after its iconic scenery of being perpetually white almost all year long.

These mountains were formed around 2.77 million years ago, after volcano eruptions due to the movement of the earth crust.

At the top of the main mountain there is a crater lake with an altitude of 2,100 meters. It is called “Tian-Chi” in Chinese, literally meaning heaven lake. Its latest eruption happened around 300 years ago.

Tianchi is the largest crater lake in China, and it is the deepest mountain lake around the world as well. The average depth of water is 204 meters. It has stored over 2 billion tons of fresh water, which is able to supply the population in Beijing downtown for 22 months.

The winter lasts for 9 months in the Changbai Mountains. Thus, the crest of the mountain is covered by snow most of the time. The depth of the snow is 50 centimeters on average.

It is extremely difficult to visit the mountain during the winter. Lake Tianchi only melts in Mid-July due to the cold weather and the water in the lake is flowing for only 30 days every year. 

It is always misty and cloudy. According to the locals, people could only see the most imposing scenery here if they have a special mysterious connection with this magical mountain. 

### 《Amazing China EP2: Four Sisters Await for Adventurers》 

Mount Siguniang or Mount Four Sisters is located in southwestern China's Sichuan province. The mountain gets its name from its four peaks adjacent to each other.

Local legend says that the mountain gods four beautiful daughters defeated the devil and turned into four snow mountains to guard the local people. The snowy mountains offer one of the toughest challenges for those who would like to conquer them.

Out of the four sisters, the youngest one -- the Yaomei Peak is the highest and the steepest of them all, with the altitude of 6250 meters. 

Only the bravest climbers around the world dare to take the challenge. There are glaciers hanging on the southern slope and extending to the foot of the mountain. The western and the northern slope are formed by the daunting steep Rocks. 

So far, the summit record for the Yaomei Peak is only 11 times. The Japanese and the American made it twice each. the British, the French and the Russian teams made it once each, and the Chinese team reached the top for four times.

Besides the four remarkable peaks, Mount suguniang also has lots of other mountains and valleys that are ready for exploration. The 5484-meters high Camel Peak is formed by two connected peaks. Between them there is a glacial plain. But right behind these glaciers, is a vertical cliff. 

And we have the Pomiu Peak that looks like a pyramid. Five Colours Mountain with an altitude of 5500 meters, and the Hunter Mountain with an altitude of 5182 meters.

Thanks for its breath-taking and wide landscape, Mount Siguniang is also known as “The Oriental Alps”. 

For the bravest adventurers worldwide, the Four Sisters will continue to lure them and wait for the next one to stand on top of them. 

### 《Amazing China EP3: Lakes with Amazing Colours》


Hidden deep in the mountains of western China's Sichuan province, there is a primitive and dreamy valley called Jiuzhaigou.

It has preserved one of the most stunning view of nature that it could be called China's Garden of Eden. Its signature landscape is the crystal lakes with turquoise and many other colors of white, blue, green, or emerald. 

The secrets of coloring the lake is the spirogyra, charophyte, and other kinds of ferns that grow in the water. They contain chlorophyll, which helps create various colors. These colors vary according to the season, light and the viewing angle. 

There are 108 Lakes like this dotted around the three major valleys in Jiuzhaigou. Each of these valleys has an altitude higher than 2000 meters and altogether the valleys are 49 kilometers long. 

Besides these magical lakes, Jiuzhaigou also has China's widest waterfall, Nuorilang Waterfall, with a width of 270 meters. If you visit Jiuzhaigou during the right time, you may even experience the rotation of four seasons in one day. From the colorful scene to the white appearance, Jiuzhaigou could do it in very short time. 

It is perhaps the ultimate fairy land in China.

### 《Amazing China EP4: ‘A Land Formed by the Blowing Dust’ Loess Plateau》


The Earth is a place of endless wonder. Where landscapes are often created from mere dust.

The Loess Plateau is such a place.

It is located in the north of central China, and contains 70% of the loess on the planet. It is hard to imagine a time when it did not exist. But this yellow land was created by particles carried by the wind. 

The entire mega landscape has a total of 62,000 square kilometers. Even seen from above, it's hard to comprehend the sheer size of it. The lowest dun is dozens of meters high, and 300 meters at its thickest. 

Eight million years ago, super strong winds blew sand and dust here. The entire pRocess of dust carrying and stacking took more than 2.6 million years. Scientists can tell the wind direction by the thickness of the loess. Because tiny dust particles are carried the furthest, they came to rest in the southeastern most part of the plateau. 

The sand in the northwest part of the plateau is much rougher. Where the river crossed an alluvial plain was deposited. People gradually started to settle around these fertile areas. Be farmed in the valley, and built roads between the ravines.

Finally, they made this ancient land their home and prospered generation after generation. 

### 《Amazing China EP5: A Mysterious Place in the South China Sea》


Starting from Hainan Island, the southernmost province of China, you can reach Sansha City in the southern tip, by this transportation supply ship.

Sansha is made up of more than 280 islands, sandbars, reefs and other sea areas.

April to May are the most beautiful seasons in this part of China. The sea is colorful, with an average visibility of more than 30 meters. 

Looking down from a high altitude, the islands in front of us do not seem to be connected with each other, but they are known as the Seven Connected Islets.

That's because beneath the sea, there is a huge reef holding them together, forming a common foundation for the little islands. 

As the tide rises and falls, they display a variety of features. most of the islets here are made up of coral remains. Coral secretes limestone, which becomes their living shells. They gather together and grow and multiply from generation to generations.

Layer upon layer of limestone is added and then compacted to form the coral reef we see today. 

This reef is still growing, towards the sea, at a rate of about 2.5 centimeters per year.

### 《Amazing China EP6: Holy Mountain》


Daocheng Yading is a magical and mysterious land located in the southwest of China's Sichuan province.

This is a kingdom surrounded by breath-taking views of snow-capped mountains, steep glaciers, crystalclear lakes, vast pastsures, as well as dense woods. It is called the last pure land on this blue planet.

Every September, the scenery here is at its most fascinating. it's like placing people into a colorful fairy tale world.

The focal point is the three mountain peaks in Daocheng Yading. The most beautiful is called Yang Maiyong. It is about 6,000 meters in height, and has the shape of a perfect pyramid. 

Back in 1931, the American explorer Joseph Rock first introduced it to the world with photos taken for the National Geographic magazine. He wrote, “she is the most beautiful snow peak my eyes have ever seen”. 

Next to it, stand two other mountains: Xiannairi and Xianuoduoji. The crest of the mountains is covered by snow most of the time. No one has yet ever been able to reach the top. They are called the “Three Holy Mountains”.

It is an irreplaceably sacred place in the hearts of the local people. The locals say that if one could walk around the holy mountains three times, then your wishes for this life will be fulfilled. 

But it is such a great challenge to both one’s physical ability and mind, because of its altitude.

What drives them to do that?

Perhaps into simple faith. 

It is not only the last pure land but also earth that can purify the soul. 

### 《Amazing China EP7: Scarlet Rocks Under Glaciers》


There is a rare spectacle to be found at the end of the glaciers beneath the main peak of a mountain area in southwestern China. The surface of the Rocks here is an eye catching bright red.



This is the heart of the Hengduan Mountains, a mountainous region in southwestern China. 145 snowy peaks over 5,000 meters above sea level are clustered here, forming an amazing group of mountains.



The highest peak, Gongga Mountain, is 7,556 meters above sea level. It is the highest point in the mountainous area of Southwest China.



Its giant conical peak is the cradle of glacier formation, from which 74 mature glaciers extend in all directions. 



The Hailuogou Glacier in the east has a huge icy waterfall measuring 1,100 meters wide, with a drop of more than 1,000 meters. The strong thawing effect leads to frequent massive icy avalanches. 



Giant glaciers descend all the way into dense forests. With its step extending to 2,850 meters above sea level, it is the lowest maritime glacier in Asia.



Bright red Rocks can be seen almost everywhere in the valley at the end of the glacier. Scientists have found that the red blood color on the stone is not from a mineral, but a rare parasite, a rare lichen complex. Whenever the temperature and humidity are right they spread across the Rock surface, dyeing the Rocks bright red. 



Taken away from the mountains however, they quickly change color and die. Even if they are left in peace, their lifespan is only four to five years, and then they will regenerate and begin coloring the Rocks bright red again. 

Why they came into being has baffled many great minds. 

### 《Amazing China EP8: The Tectonic Story of Sanpan Stone》


In China's southeast coastal province of Zhejiang, on there is a group of giant Rocks called the Sanpan Stone, literally meaning, the three pieces of stone. 

Once upon a time however they were one whole piece of Rock.



The story of the Sanpan Stone started 135 million years ago. Back then, during a violent tectonic event, powerful forces formed a basin covering nearly 347 square miles. Imagine the basin as a cradle, in which the Sanpan Stone is nestling. 



In this huge bowl, sedimentary Rocks gathered, dominated by conglomerates. These sediments were the origins of the Sanpan Stone. The pRocess of mountain building continued. The sediments in the basin were forced up to form a sedimentary massif, which gradually grew into the Sanpan Stone. 



For tens of millions of years, wind and water eroded the massif along vertical fractures until most of the Rock was weathered away. Eventually the three individual Rocks with steep cliffs we see today were formed. 



The highest of them measures 324 meters. However, the steep cliffs pose a great challenge for those wishing to reach the top. 



About 500 years ago, in China's Ming Dynasty, a group of carpenters was hired to build a wooden ladder in order to reach the top of the Sanpan Stone. They toiled for three long years, but failed in their task. Before the ladder could reach the summit, its foot had rotted away. 

The ambition of reaching the top was not achieved until the end of the 1980s. Over 3,500 stone steps were carved into the Rock face. Now, we can finally climb these steep stairs and reached the top, to experience the power of tectonic movements from the remote past.

### 《Amazing China EP9: Huge Bonsa between Water and Sky》




Wuyi Mountain, located in the southeastern part of China, has a total area of about 1,000 square kilometers. It has the largest nature reserve in Fujian Province, and the largest existing subtropical primary forest system in the same latitude zone in the world.



Wuyi Mountain is deeply influenced by a fault zone, which controls the direction of the ridge line. The other faults divide the mountain into several fault blocks and form many deep valleys. 



Tongmuguan Fault Zone is the center of the faults, forming a spectacular “V”-shaped grand canyon. The intense tectonic movements of millions of years ago gifted Wuyi Mountain a magnificent Danxia landform, which differs from the Danxia landform in Northwest China. 



Many of the Rock surfaces are covered with different shades of vegetation, creating a blush on the huge green mountains.



The Goddess Peak, the symbol of Wuyi Mountain, is the typical residual Danxia landform left by the faults. Geological movement caused a red-Rock massif to collapse under its enormous weight. The Goddess Peak is the last remaining pillar of the surrounding Rocks after the collapse. 



There are many cracks in the cast Rocks of Wuyi Mountain. After millions of years of scouring and cutting by water flowing through them, many streams have been formed around the mountain.

Sitting on bamboo rafts and following the stream, tourists can enjoy the scenery of Wuyi Mountain along the way.  

### 《Amazing China EP10: The Rainbow Hills of China》


In Northwestern China, there is a chain of undulating hills called Colorful Zhangye Danxia. Here you can find the colors of the rainbow.

The terrain is so hostile that even grass struggles to survive. So where did this palette of colors come from? 

It's hard to imagine, but this area was once a lake. The multi-colored hills are the result of the long geological evolution of the lakebed.

Changes in temperature and humidity, as well as the existence of various mineral elements, and the different iron content in lake sediments especially, gave rise to the spectrum of colors.

Part of the ancient Silk Road it is said that Marco Polo once visited here over 700 years ago.

However, compared to Marco Polo, today we can have much more fun.

### 《Amazing China EP11: West Lake》


There are no less than 30 lakes named “West Lake” in China. But the West Lake in Hangzhou is the best known of them all. 

It is located in Hangzhou, the capital of Zhengjiang Province on the southeastern coast. And the city is known as the paradise of the world in China.

Thousands of years ago, the West Lake was connected to the sea. The Qiantang River not far away from the West Lake, enters the sea in the eastern part of the area. Sediment deposited by the river eventually blocked the connection between the West Lake and the sea, making it an inland water feature.

Since the 9th century A.D., the beautiful scenery of the West Lake in all seasons has appeared time and again in poems, stories and legends. It's roughly estimated there are about 630 legends of the West Lake alone.

In 2011, West Lake Cultural Landscape of Hangzhou was included on the World Heritage List. 

It is visited by an endless stream of international tourists. Perhaps some of them will add their own stories to West Lake’s wealth of literature. 

### 《Amazing China EP12: A Cow or An Antelope?》


Deep in central China's Qinling Mountains, there are some mysterious wild animals in the untraveled area. 

Meat takin. It is perhaps one of the largest mammals on earth that many people have never heard of. Without using drone, it's impossible to trace them and got this rare footage. Local conservationist said that they haven't seen these enigmatic creatures for more than a decade. 

These animals live in an inaccessible area at the altitude of 2,500 meters above sea level. many people think that takin is a kind of cow because they are thick and strong, and adult individuals can even be as high as two meters or more. 

In fact, takins are not cows. They are closer to the family of goat antelope, with a pair of small horns, and the sound is similar to that of the antelope. 

They are alert to the looming appearance of drone, so when the drone approached them, we need to keep a friendly and safe distance with them.

Now it is time for lunch. Let's hope our takin friends to have a good meal! 

### 《Amazing China EP13: Tree Climbing Lesson》


The Giant Panda. 

You might think it’s still an endangered species. But the good news is populations are on the rise, due to enormous efforts by Chinese conservation programs, using new breeding technology. By actively guiding adult pandas to mate, more and more panda babies are being born. 

But today there is an even bigger challenge. Some of the panda cubs from these breeding programs are being reintroduced to the wild, their native home. The first thing they have to learn is how to climb trees.

A panda cub is having a lesson in the forest. He is already one and a half years old. That's his mother next to him, a wild giant panda. Mother and son are taken to a safe wild habitat that are set free to make their own way.

The ability of young cubs to survive in the wild is mainly taught by their mothers. The most important skill is to climb trees. Because in this forest, they may encounter enemies, such as other bears. 

The little panda seems to have no interest in practicing this new skill. But mother is strict. She won't allow her son to be distracted. This is about life and death.

Finally our little panda climbs up to the top of a tree. See how sharp his claws are, and the strength in his limbs. The most important thing he has acquired his great courage, and natural instinct he inherits from his wild panda mother. 

Now it's time to rest after a tiring day. Who's a big strong boy then?

### 《Amazing China EP14: The Longevity Bird》


In China, the red-crowned crane is regarded as a very special animal. According to zoologists, individual wild cranes can live to be 20 to 30 years of Age. For the Chinese it is often associated with luck, fidelity, and long life.

In eastern China's coastal city of Yancheng, red-crowned cranes arrive each year for the winter. Among China's extensive large bird population, it is known for its elegance.

This graceful creature has white feathers, a red crown on its head, and a beautiful and elegant posture. 

Red-crowned cranes are monogamous. They have strict needs when it comes to their living environment. They will only breed where the natural habitat is friendly.

Compared with their breeding grounds thousands of miles away to the north. The water here never completely freezes over in winter. It's full of food. And they can hide among the reeds.

But this longevity bird, so cherished by the Chinese people, is endangered because its natural habitat is fast disappearing, with only about 2,000 left in the world.

1,000 of them migrate to Yancheng. And overwinter each year in the vast

wetlands here. This is the largest group of red-crowned cranes in the world that continues to migrate.

Thanks to local efforts in wetland protection and scientific measures to

better look after this national treasure, the number of red-crowned cranes is now rising. The Yancheng wetlands has become a paradise for red-crowned cranes.

Ensuring the longevity birds enjoy a long life for this planet.

### 《Amazing China EP15: A Home Coming Story of Milu Deer》


On the coastal wetlands by the Yellow Sea in eastern China, you'll notice a strange-looking deer walking around. It has a head shaped like a horse, giant antlers like a deer, hooves like a cow, and a tail of a donkey. These are Milu deer, a species native to China. 



But it disappeared from China, for nearly 100 years. The fact that they have now returned to China is the result of a remarkable century-old animal protection collaboration between two countries.



Archeological studies have found that the Milu deer were once common in eastern China, but by the nineteenth century their numbers had dropped drastically.



Most of the Milu deer were raised in the Emperor's hunting grounds outside Beijing. The Europeans who came to China at the time believed the species to be very rare and many were taken back to Europe. 



When the Emperor's hunting grounds were destroyed by heavy flooding, the Milu deer were lost, never to be seen in the area again. Luckily, there were the Milu deer that had been shipped to foreign countries. A Duke in Britain had given shelter to 18 of these fortunate Milu deer, and they were well taken care of. 



By the mid-1980s, the Chinese government hoped the species could be restored in China once again, a suggestion supported by the Dukes descendants. In 1986, 39 of the Milu deer were flown to China from Britain, to their ancestral homeland in Dafeng County in Jiangsu province. 



After two decades, the Milu deer population in China has increased to over 5,000, with nearly 1,350 roaming in the wild. 



Today there is no longer any fears for their survival.

### 《Amazing China EP16: The Tidal Bore of Qiantang River》


The Qiantang River is located in Zhejiang on the southeastern coast of China and flows into the East China Sea. Every year of the eighteenth day of the eighth lunar month, people gather along its banks expectantly, eager for the arrival of the tide.



The waters of Hangzhou Bay and the Qiantang River meet on the horizon, forming a thin white line.



Hundreds of thousands of tons of second the fusion of ocean and river dramatically tumbled back towards the land. The seawall contains the force of 7 tons per square meter. 



The waves can reach a maximum of 9 meters, about three stories high and even taller than four of China's famous basketball player, Yao Ming.



The huge tides and waves do little to deter the bold. People jumped into the powerful waves as early as the Southern Song Dynasty of China, more than 800 years ago. The people of the time called them the Tide Players. It looks so much like today's surfing, minus the surf board.



Today, the Qiantang River attracts thousands of people from far and wide for the annual tidal surfing competition.

### 《Amazing China EP17: The Unfrozen River》


In winter, Arxan, a city in northern China becomes a world of ice. Its rivers become frozen. All except one.



Upstream of the Khalkhyn Gol River, there is a stretch around 20 kilometers long. Even in winter, when the air temperature typically drops to minus 40 to 30 degrees Celsius, this section remains ice free. People call it The Unfrozen River. 



Its secret lies deep beneath the river bed, where the river passes over an area of geothermal activity near Arxan. The heat from below, raises the temperature allowing the river water to stay above freezing point. And so it remains ice free.



During the harsh winter, it even becomes a spa for animals. A group of cattle are strolling along the river bank. They can't wait to wade through the water.



Look closely and you'll see steam rising from the surface of the river. 



Such a nice warm bath! Let's leave the cattle to enjoy it!

### 《Amazing China EP18: The Road Under the Water》


In southern China, there is a famous road built across Poyang Lake, China's largest freshwater lake. The people of China call it “the most beautiful road under the water”.



Towards the end of May every year, this road begins to attract a lot of attention.



The color of the lake either side begins to change into two different tones. The surface of the road is so close to the water level of the lake. As you drive along the viewer head is broad and bright. It feels as though you are riding a boat across the lake. 



People call it the road under the water. For the next few months, this road is no longer just above the surface, but deep under water. 



As the water level of Poyang Lake rises, the road is gradually flooded. Although drivers can no longer see the road surface, they can still drive across safely by keeping within the guardrails on either side. 



For thrill seeking motorists, it's like driving an amphibious supercar. As the water levels continue to rise, after a few days, the entire road will be completely submerged. 



Eventually, a few months later, the road reappears again.

### 《Amazing China EP19: Ice Flower》


During the winter in China's Heilongjiang Province, it is not uncommon to see temperatures below Minus 30 degrees Celsius. 



Despite the intense cold, “flowers” still find a way to bloom. In the right place with the right conditions these flowers spread across the tops of the trees.



Every year, Kurbin enjoys a “flower season” of up to four months. This amazing ice flower spectacle can be experienced from December to March each year.



Ice flowers are officially known as “rime”. In extremely cold weather, the nearby hydropower station continuously discharges hot water. The water vapor evaporates from the surface of the water, forming a dreamy drifting white mist.



Much of the water vapor turns into ice at night as temperatures drop, which then settles on the tree branches, creating this fantastical sight.



As you walk beneath the trees covered with rime, sometimes you can hear the sound of ice crystals growing and then falling. 



The rime absorbs all the sounds around creating a tranquil fairytale world.

### 《Amazing China EP20: Anjihai Grand Canyon》


In Xinjiang, China, the beautiful scenery can often take miraculous forms.



Anjihai Town has become famous the world over due to one canyon in particular.



The river, which originates in the Tianshan Mountains, rushes down the steep slopes, carving its way through escarpment formed over millennia.



The canyon is about 30 kilometers in length, with the valley floor being 3 to 4 hundred meters at its widest, while the narrowest part is only 2 or 3 meters. 



From above, Anjihai Grand Canyon is rich in colors. On either side of the canyon, red sandstone and grey mud stone alternate to create an astonishing landscape.



The colors are formed as the river erodes and dissolves the sandstone and mudstone, drawing abstract pictures on the land. 



It is one of the most beautiful and yet virtually unknown canyons in Xinjiang.



Because it is so hidden and the land on the either side of the canyon are the same height, people sometimes come across it without warning.



If they don't stop in time, then they could easily plunge off the cliff.

### 《Amazing China EP21: Mountains in the River》


In ancient times, Zhenjiang City, Jiangsu Province, in Eastern China was called Jingkou. Located at the golden cross of the Yangtze River and the Beijing-Hangzhou Grand Canal, it is a place of strategic importance.



The upper reaches of the Yangtze River deposit a lot of silt here, which has gradually built up into a small island in the river. 



There are three beautiful mountains here, namely Jinshan Mountain, Beigu Mountain and Jiaoshan Mountain, which are closely connected with the Yangtze River and are called the Three Mountains of Jingkou.



Jinshan mountain is only 42 meters above sea level. Although jin shan mountain is said to be on the Yangtze River, because the rivers course has moved to the north, JinShan is now some distance away from the Yangtze. 



Beigu Mountain, 10 meters higher than Jinshan Mountain, is just beside the Yangtze River. From here, Jinshan Mountain can be seen in the west and Jiaoshan Mountain in the east. The mighty river flows around the foot of the mountain.



Jiaoshan, the highest of the three, with an altitude of 70.7 meters and an area of 38 hectares. It is located in the Yangtze River, surrounded by water. Encircled by the green waves, the green mountain looks like a piece of jade floating on the river.



People can reach the island by boat to experience the gentle river water in the dry season and appreciate the magnificent scene in the wet season.



Compared with many famous mountains, this seemingly inconspicuous local landscape composed of three beautiful mountains coexist and integrate with the Yangtze River, becoming a landmark in this area.

### 《Amazing China EP22: Flaming Mountain and Grape Valley》


Areas around the latitude of 42 degrees north on earth are mostly known for their cool and pleasant climate. But there is one exception, which is famous for its incredible heat. This is the “Flaming Mountain” in China's northwestern Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region.



Of course, it is not really “burning”. The mountain is barren and red, with a blackish tint. In summer, ground temperatures can be as high as 70-degrees Celsius. People are tricked by their senses into seeing “flames”.



The terrain is the main reason for the heat of the Flaming Mountain. It is located at the low point of the Turpan Basin which is also the lowest point of the Chinese mainland. The height difference between it and the surrounding mountains is more than 5,000 meters, so the hot air in the basin cannot easily disperse. As a result, the Flaming Mountain becomes the hottest place on its latitude.



There is no grass on the Flaming Mountain, but the canyon nearby is shaded by grapes.



The canyon is only 8 kilometers long from north to south, but its annual output of grapes can reach more than 10 million kg. Almost every family here grows grapes. After harvest, they are sent to shade houses for drying. 



The shade houses are built on the slopes of barren mountains, high up and with no shelter, so as to make full use of the hot dry winds in the Turpan Basin. 



There are many holes in the walls of the shade houses which not only help with ventilation, but also help avoid direct sunlight on grapes. It takes just 40 days for the fresh grapes to be dried by the hot air.

### 《Amazing China EP23: The Perfect Stopper for Migratory Birds》


The Yangtze, China's longest river, rising from the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau, flows eastwards for 6,300 kilometers, eventually reaching Yuantuojiao, in Jiangsu Province in eastern China, where it flows into the sea.



A large amount of sediment carried by the Yangtze River has been deposited here due to the tides. Gradually the sandbar is becoming a growing and extending beach plain. It has also become a popular stopover for a large number of migratory birds.



In the Yangtze River Delta to the north of Yuantuojiao, abundant rivers carry huge amounts of sediment to the sea. They also bring nutrients, piling up to form fertile coastlines and unique sandy ridges and sandbars. 



Around the coastline of the Yellow Sea in China, hundreds of kilometres of coastal wetlands and ecological zones have formed. Every spring and autumn, nearly 3 million migratory birds around the world stop here to replenish themselves. 



The Yangtze River Delta next to the Yellow Sea is one of China's most economically developed and densely populated regions.



While the economy is developing rapidly, a large number of coastal wetlands have been preserved. This creates valuable habitats for millions of migratory birds and endangered species that prefer not to be disturbed.



Today, sediment accumulation, and continental shelf settlement are two dynamic geological forces which are constantly shaping the landscape and ecological processes of the Yellow Sea and Bohai Wetlands, making it one of the most diverse and richest coastlines in the world.



It is an organic combination of natural biological and human functions, and a key hub on the East Asian Australasian Flyway of migratory birds

### 《Amazing China EP24: The Hometown of Red Pine Tree》


In the northeast of China, a dense forest grows and the low mountains and hills, known as the Xiaoxing’an Mountains. People call it the hometown of the red pine tree.



The Xiaoxing’an Mountains cover a vast area and have a long geological history of about 600 million years. Trilobite and dinosaur fossils have been unearthed in many places. Archaeological research shows that it was originally an ocean, and formed by land and sea changes over hundreds of millions of years. 



When it comes to the Xiaoxing’an Mountains, we have to mention the red pine tree. Its pine nuts are edible and can be used to make oil. Its wood is light, soft, delicate and rot-resistant. 

However, its economic value is far less than its ecological value. Every hectare of the red pine forest can absorb 13 tons of carbon dioxide and emit 9.5 tons of oxygen every year. It can also fix the soil and prevent soil erosion.

Wild animals such as black bears, wild boars and squirrels in the forest often eat the pine nuts. Squirrels like to store their pine nuts in different places as they prepare for the winter. But they have a poor memory and often forget where they have put these nuts. These forgotten pine nuts sprout in the spring helping the red pine tree expand its territory.

In addition to the red pine tree, there are many different kinds of trees in the Xiaoxing’an Mountains. Every autumn, these trees display the beautiful colors of nature. 

### Amazing China EP25: Natural Karst Museum


Over time, sand gathers to build strong towers. But drop by drop, the water washes them clean away. Imagine hundreds of millions of tons of water dripping for hundreds of millions of years. How then would the landscape look?

Maybe the Yunnan-Guizhou Plateau of China is how it would be.

The erosion of soluble rocks by running water has resulted in a variety of karst landforms. The total karst area in China is 140,000 square kilometers, and Zhijin Cave National Geopark is just one of them.

Zhijin Grand Canyon is a miraculous natural landscape revered by geologists as "a top-class karst landscape." There are 7 natural bridges on the upper and lower levels which form a unique masterpiece among geoparks across China.

Corrosion by running water opens a window to a subterranean world. Zhijin Cave covers an area of more than 700,000 square meters, which is equivalent to 100 football fields. It takes about 3 hours to tour the whole cave.

The highest part of the cave is 50 stories. The huge karst deposits, measuring 200 metres in length.

Looked like an imposing sculpture or fresco.

Zhijin Cave is endowed with more than 40 types of cast cave deposits and presents a variety of wonders. The formation of Zhijin Cave has taken at least 2.5 billion years. Entering the cave is like stepping into a time tunnel. It feels as though you are no longer on Earth, but rather have stepped into a land of fantasy. 

Amazing China EP26: The Bubbling Chinese Giant Salamander


In the east of China, near the Yellow Sea in Jangsu, there's a magical island situated a little way off the provinces 765 kilometers of coastline.



Covering an area of less than 0.2 squarekilometers, Qinshan Island is 1,000 meters long from east to west, and 200 meters in width. From the air, the island looks for all the world like a giant Chinese salamander, with a huge bulbous head. Qinshan Island is about 15 kilometers of the coast, and is one of the few coastal islands in Jiangsu Province. 



In the past, the island has been ten times its size today. However, thousands of years of erosion have seen the rock consumed by the sea little by little, eventually spitting out this small fish like Island. The long tail of this "fish" appears and disappears at regular intervals with the rise and fall of the tides. It is 2.6 kilometers long and has existed for at least 2,000 years. 

The Divine Path of Qinshan Island was formed by the action of the tides against this gravel island. The shores were gradually worn away and eventually collapsed. The debris drifted in the currents round to the south side of the island and was gradually deposited under the waterline for a stretch of over 10 kilometers. The rise and fall of the sea level over time has helped form a mound composed of gravel and debris. This mound is 2.6 kilometers long and extends from the island towards the land. 

Mounds like this can be seen all along the east coast of China. However it is very rare for a small island with an area of less than 0.2 square kilometres to have such a feature several times longer and wider than the island itself. I t is known as the longest natural avenue at sea in China.

As the tide retreats, the Divine Path reappears in the sea. Those who tread this path seem to be walking on an infinity of water. 